## Linux Commands
pwd
current working directory

cd
cd.. move one directory up
     cd   go straight to the home folder
     cd- (with a hyphen) to move to your previous directory

ls
ls -R list all the files in the sub-directories as well
ls -a show the hidden files
ls -al list the files and directories with detailed information like the permissions, size, owner, etc.
ls -ltr list the contents of the current directory in the long listing format ( -l ), sorted by modification time ( -t ) in reverse order 

cat
short for concatenate, list the contents of a file on the standard output (sdout)
For instance: cat file.txt.
cat > filename.txt 
creates a new file
cat filename1 filename2>filename3 
joins two files (1 and 2) and stores the output of them in a new file (3)
cat filename | tr a-z A-Z >output.txt
to convert a file to upper or lower case use

cp
copy files from the current directory to a different directory
For instance, the command 
cp scenery.jpg /home/username/Pictures
would create a copy of scenery.jpg (from your current directory) into the Pictures directory.

mv
mv command is to move files, although it can also be used to rename files.
You need to type mv, the file’s name, and the destination’s directory. For example: 
mv file.txt /home/username/Documents.

mkdir
To generate a new directory inside another directory, use this Linux basic command 
mkdir Music/Newfile
use the p (parents) option to create a directory in between two existing directories. For example, 
mkdir -p Music/2020/Newfile   will create the new “2020” file.

rmdir
delete a directory, use the rmdir command. However, rmdir only allows you to delete empty directories.

rm
The rm command is used to delete directories and the contents within them. If you only want to delete the directory — as an alternative to rmdir — use rm -r.

Note: Be very careful with this command and double-check which directory you are in. This will delete everything and there is no undo.

touch
touch /home/username/Documents/Web.html 
to create an HTML file entitled Web under the Documents directory.

locate
locate -i school*note 
command will search for any file that contains the word “school” and “note”, whether it is uppercase or lowercase.

find
To find files in the current directory use, find . -name notes.txt
To look for directories use, / -type d -name notes. txt

grep
grep blue notepad.txt will search for the word blue in the notepad file

sudo short for “SuperUser Do”
this command enables you to perform tasks that require administrative or root permissions

df
get a report on the system’s disk space usage, shown in percentage and KBs
df -m see the report in megabytes

du short for Disk Usage

head
used to view the first lines of any text file
show the first five lines, type head -n 5 filename.ext

tail
display the last ten lines of a text file. For example, tail -n filename.ext

diff Short for difference
diff file1.ext file2.ext
compares the contents of two files line by line. After analyzing the files, it will output the lines that do not match

tar
archive multiple files into a tarball — a common Linux file format that is similar to zip format, with compression being optional

chmod
change the read, write, and execute permissions of files and directories

chown
enables you to change or transfer the ownership of a file to the specified username
chown linuxuser2 file.ext will make linuxuser2 as the owner of the file.ext

jobs
display all current jobs along with their statuses. A job is basically a process that is started by the shell

kill 
SIGTERM (15) — requests a program to stop running and gives it some time to save all of its progress. If you don’t specify the signal when entering the kill command, this signal will be used.
SIGKILL (9) — forces programs to stop immediately. Unsaved progress will be lost.
